docs: create content for "breakpoints & grid", "user experience guidelines" and "team philosophy" (#302)
SchwarzIT/onyx: apps/docs/src/basics/breakpoints-grid.md

# Breakpoints and grid

Column grids in ui design and development establish a structured layout, organizing content, components and elements cohesively. They provide a framework for alignment and distribution, ensuring consistency and hierarchy. Additionally, grids serve as the foundation for smooth responsive behavior, allowing seamless adoption to different screen sizes and resolutions, ultimately enhancing usability and overall user experience.

To see the grid and breakpoints in action, feel free to have a look on the [grid playground](/exapmle).

## Understanding the grid

To understand the anatomy of a column grid, it is essential to comprehend its key components: margins, columns and gutters, which function harmoniously together. Visual examples and further details can be found below.

> ![description of grid units](/assets/grid-explanation.png)

Reviewer: We want to focus on accessibility and should try to also extend this to our docs :) 
In the description we should try to explain concepts that are only shown there or point to the in-text explanation:

```suggestion
![Description of how the grid key components are layed out. Multiple vertical tracks are stretching over the whole page: the outermost tracks are "margins". Inbetween is an odd amount of columns, where every even column is a "gutter" and every odd track is a "column"](/assets/grid-explanation.png)
```

::: warning Attention
These limits can be set to **1440px** or **1920px**, striking a balance between expansive screen usage and optimal content presentation.
:::

While these grid boundaries are optional, it is highly recommended to do so to guarantee readability.

The determination of the optimal number of columns is closely tied to the concept of the breakpoints, which define the points at which the layout of the ui responds to changes in screen size. The onyx [design and dev team](/brand/team) responsible for the fundamental guidelines established those breakpoints and grid implementations.

## Breakpoints

With the onyx design approach, we recognize the significance of tailoring the layout to different screen sizes through the implementation of specific breakpoints. Each breakpoint corresponds to a distinct grid system, carefully crafted to accommodate the diverse needs of onyx applications. From small mobile screens to expansive desktop displays, onyx offers a range of specifications and adjustments for the column grid, ensuring seamless adaption across various devices and screen resolution.

> ![description of breakpoints with all units included](/assets/breakpoints.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![All breakpoints layed out on top of each-other with their units included. The details can be found in the following section.](/assets/breakpoints.png)
```

Details can be found [here](#columns).

:::

::: warning Attention
By default, all grids are `left aligned` to the edge of the screen. For having more flexibility, the grid can be `center aligned`, as well. Keep in mind that this is not the default setting. Please use the individual alignment carefully, because it highly depends on the type of the application and the content it has to display. If you are not sure, stick with the default setting or talk to the ux designer, that is assigned to your project.
:::

## Sidebar grid

Overall, the grid and breakpoints for the sidebar operate the same way like those employed for the whole screen, in terms of logic. Similar to the whole-screen-grid- the sidebar incorporates margins, columns, and gutters, that dynamically adapt to its width. However, the values used for the sidebar grid and breakpoints are varying. For detailed specifications, refer to the definitions provided below.

To dive deeper into understanding the sidebar's structure, behavior, and usage, please visit the dedicated [component page](/development/sidebar) that provides comprehensive information on its functionality and implementation.

> ![description of all sidebar breakpoints with all units included](/assets/sidebar-breakpoints.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![All sidebar breakpoints layed out on top of each-other with their units included. The details can also be found in the following section.](/assets/sidebar-breakpoints.png)
```

| Margin          |  32px |
| Column quantity |     8 |
| Column width    |  flex |
| Gutter          |  24px |

:::

::: details xl breakpoint

| Unit            | Value |
| --------------- | ----: |
| Margin          |  64px |
| Column quantity |    12 |
| Column width    |  flex |
| Gutter          |  24px |

:::

## Screen resolutions

### Pixel density

Pixel density refers to the concentration of pixels within an inch, dictating the level of detail and clarity in digital displays. Higher pixel density results in sharper images and text. For instance, an image sized at 100x100 pixels appears larger on devices with lower pixel density compared to those with higher density. Modern smartphone displays boast exceptionally high resolutions, rendering individual pixels virtually indistinguishable to the naked eye. In fact, the pixel count on a 5-inch smartphone screen can rival that of a standard 27-inch monitor. However, directly adopting dimensions and font sizes from traditional PC monitors would render elements and text too small for comfortable viewing. To address this, content is automatically scaled on high-resolution screens to ensure optimal readability and usability.

> ![high density screen vs. low density screen](/assets/screen-density.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Comparison of a screen with high pixel density and a screen with low pixel density](/assets/screen-density.png)
```
